There is a flash followed by a shriek - the wizard has turned into a pig.
Everyone in the vicinity turns into a pig except for one embarrassed wizard.
Twenty-five years of the wizard’s life drop away in an instant, possibly making them a very small child. If the wizard is younger than twenty-five then they disappear into cosmic pre-birth.
An overflow of plasmic fluid has found its way into the wizard’s head, which has expanded to the size of a pumpkin. If the wizard is struck for 5+ Damage in one go they must Test their Luck or their head explodes, killing them and dealing 2d6 Damage to anyone standing nearby.
A small shoal of herring and the water they had previously swum in appear above the wizard, soaking everyone nearby with freezing sea water.
All vegetation within a mile withers and dies.
The wizard no longer speaks or understands any known tongue, instead favouring a slightly unpleasant language made up of shrieks and mumbles.
A pool of colour opens up under the wizard, sucking them and any other unlucky nearby souls into it. They will be whisked off to a random sphere of existence.
The most feared of adolescent academy curses: hiccups! Until dispelled the wizard hiccups uncontrollably, suffering a -4 penalty to further attempts at magic.
All exposed liquid within 12 metres turns to milk. That milk then curdles.
The wizard grows an attractive tail. If removed it does not grow back.
A random spectator’s bones mysteriously disappear. Even more mysteriously they don’t seem overly put out by it. They can’t fight or cast spells and can only very slowly shuffle about as a gelatinous blob of flesh but they’re generally unphased. After 1d6 hours the bones pop back into place from wherever they went.
All currency in the wizard’s possession turns into beautiful butterflies that flap off into the sky.
An inanimate object in the wizard’s possession gains sentience and a voice. Its attitude is up to the GM to decide.
A very surprised orc appears beside the wizard (7/8/2 - Club).
A portal is opened to a paradigmatic battleground, allowing an angelic or demonic figure to pop through.
The wizard catches the Red Eye Curse. Whenever they open their eyes fire shoots out at random (as Fire Bolt).
The wizard flies off in a random direction at great speed, landing 50 metres away (or falling back down to earth, as it may be).
All shoes in the vicinity catch fire.
The wizard suffers a coughing fit for 1d6 turns after which 1d6 gremlins tumble out of their mouth and start biting people’s faces.
The wizard grows a small pair of horns.
The wizard instantly grows an enormous shaggy beard. It tumbles down to the floor and gets in the way. The wizard suffers a -2 penalty to everything until they tame that magnificent beast.
All of the wizard’s body hair falls out with an audible “fuff!”
The wizard becomes 20 years old. Today is their new birthday and they will feel terrible if no one notices.
All weapons of war in the vicinity turn into flowers.
A calm and healthy pig appears in place of the Spell.
The wizard’s old face melts off and reveals a new one. It is quite handsome.
The wizard’s teeth all fall out. The sudden loss causes them to suffer a -4 penalty to making magic due to their poor diction. After an hour a fresh set grows in.
The wizard disappears in a puff of smoke, never to be seen again.
An entirely different and random Spell goes off, directed at the same target.
The wizard’s hands find a mind of their own and take a severe disliking to the tyranny of control. They set about choking the wizard to death only to lapse back into servitude as soon as they pass out.
The wizard is cursed with curses. They are unable to speak without swearing, thus making magic impossible for the duration. Lasts 1d6 hours.
All animals in the vicinity are brought back to life. This includes rations and leather, which will crawl and flap about blindly.
The wizard issues forth a mighty sneeze, knocking everyone over in front of them and dealing 1d6 Damage unless they successfully Test their Luck.
A sickness overcomes the wizard, causing them to cough up a thick black fluid. The fluid flows away as though in a hurry to be somewhere. The wizard will soon hear rumours and suffer accusations due to the workings of a sinister doppelgänger.
The Spell being cast won’t stop. It goes completely haywire, out of control, firing off madly until the wizard is subdued.